# SEQUENCE-TAGGING-AND-NAMED-ENTITY-RECOGNITION-USING-BIDIRECTIONAL-LSTMS
This research investigates the use of Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks with help of TensorFlow framework for conducting Named Entity Recognition (NER) on textual data. Name Entity Recognition is an important part of Natural Language Processing that consists of identification and categorization for multiple entities present in a text, including individuals' names, geographical locations, organizational affiliations and other relevant elements.
There are many steps involved while building an optimised model in order to get best and precise results. The first step involves data preprocessing, in this step the dataset with labelled entities and tags are inserted and processed in the jupyter notebook. In data preprocessing the missing values are handled by creating sequences of words along with the tags. Apart from this Bidirectional LSTM model is built in order to get the contextual information which is required to get the accurate recognition of the entity. The model architecture consists of embedding, stacked bidirectional LSTM and a TimeDistribution dense layer for multiple-label sequence tagging.
While training of the model is based on the Adam optimizer and a sparse categorical cross-entropy loss function. The progress is showcased using accuracy and loss plot for evaluating the performance of the model, after that this model is used to predict the entity tags on unseen test data. This research evaluates the effectiveness of the Bidirectional LSTM for sequence tagging tasks, particularly NER. In order to increase the efficiency and accuracy of the model for evaluation purpose TensorFlow is used. The final model demonstrates the competitive performance in identification and categorization of name entities in the text data. In order to make sure the model works on the generalized capabilities the trained model is trained on independent test set.
Keywords: Name Entity Recognition, Sequence Tagging, Bidirectional LSTM, NLP, Tokenization, Information Extraction. 

